docs/zh_CN/launching-the-exploit.md, before:

---
title: 启动漏洞
---

我们首先准备好SD卡来启动漏洞。 对于大多数用户，我们建议用一个叫做“Memory Pit”的漏洞，是一个利用Nintendo DSi Camera（iQue DSi 趣照）应用在处理数据时存在的漏洞实现的。

运行这个漏洞，它就会引导进入 TWiLight Menu++ ，一个DSi菜单的自制替换版本。

::: tip

如果您没有计划安装Unlaunch并拥有DSi浏览器或Flipnote Studio， 建议使用 [stylehax](launching-the-browser-exploit.html) 或 [Flipnote Lenny](launching-the-flipnote-exploit.html) 代替。 [哪个是最好的漏洞？](faq.html#which-is-the-best-exploit)

:::

### Section I - Checking your DSi Camera Version

1. 打开你的机器电源
1. Open Nintendo DSi Camera
   - If you are prompted to complete the camera tutorial, do so now
   - If the tutorial crashes as you try to complete it, your Nintendo DSi camera hardware is likely broken in some way and you will not be able to use Memory Pit. Please use an [alternate exploit](alternate-exploits.html)
1. Open the album using the large button on the right
1. Take note of whether you have a Facebook icon alongside the star, clubs, and heart, outlined in red here: ![Screenshot of where the Facebook icon is located](/assets/images/facebook-check.png)

### 第二节 - Memory Pit

1. Download the correct Memory Pit binary for your Nintendo DSi Camera version:
   - [If you ***did*** have a Facebook icon](/assets/files/memory_pit/768_1024/pit.bin)
   - [If you did ***not*** have a Facebook icon](/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin)
1. Navigate to the `sd:/private/ds/app/484E494A/` folder on your SD card
   - You will already have this directory if you have previously taken photos to your SD card via the Nintendo DSi Camera application. If so, you do not need to delete it and recreate it
   - If it does not exist, please create the individual folders
1. If there is already a `pit.bin` file in that path, rename it to `tip.bin`
1. Place the Memory Pit `pit.bin` file in this folder
1. If there's a folder named `DCIM` in the root of your SD card, make a back up of it so you don't lose the pictures inside, and then remove it from the SD card


## Section III - Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the Nintendo DSi Camera application
1. Select the SD Card icon in the top-right
   - If you receive a message saying your SD card isn't inserted, please use another SD card
   - If you receive a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup.html)
1. Open the album using the large button on the right
   - The screen should flash magenta if Memory Pit was copied correctly

::: warning

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [prep work](get-started.html#section-i-prep-work) again.

:::

::: warning

If you enter the SD card camera album and nothing unusual happens, ensure that you downloaded the correct version of Memory Pit for your version and region, and placed it into the correct folder on your SD card. Also ensure that the `DCIM` folder does not exist on your SD card.

:::

You can now use TWiLight Menu++! First, it will ask you to select your language and region. These do not need to match your console's language or region so set them to whichever you prefer. Next it's recommended to continue on and make a NAND backup. This can potentially be used to save your console if anything bad happens in the future.

::: tip

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand.html)

:::

Commit message:

Push new source files and update translations again

docs/zh_CN/launching-the-exploit.md, after:

---
title: 启动漏洞
---

我们首先准备好SD卡来启动漏洞。 对于大多数用户，我们建议用一个叫做“Memory Pit”的漏洞，是一个利用Nintendo DSi Camera（iQue DSi 趣照）应用在处理数据时存在的漏洞实现的。

运行这个漏洞，它就会引导进入 TWiLight Menu++ ，一个DSi菜单的自制替换版本。

::: tip

如果您没有计划安装Unlaunch并拥有DSi浏览器或Flipnote Studio， 建议使用 [stylehax](launching-the-browser-exploit.html) 或 [Flipnote Lenny](launching-the-flipnote-exploit.html) 代替。 [哪个是最好的漏洞？](faq.html#which-is-the-best-exploit)

:::

### Section I - Checking your DSi Camera Version

1. 打开你的机器电源
1. Open Nintendo DSi Camera
    - If you are prompted to complete the camera tutorial, do so now
    - If the tutorial crashes as you try to complete it, your Nintendo DSi camera hardware is likely broken in some way and you will not be able to use Memory Pit. Please use an [alternate exploit](alternate-exploits.html)
1. Open the album using the large button on the right
1. Take note of whether you have a Facebook icon alongside the star, clubs, and heart, outlined in red here: ![Screenshot of where the Facebook icon is located](/assets/images/facebook-check.png)

### 第二节 - Memory Pit

1. Download the correct Memory Pit binary for your Nintendo DSi Camera version:
    - [If you ***did*** have a Facebook icon](/assets/files/memory_pit/768_1024/pit.bin)
    - [If you did ***not*** have a Facebook icon](/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin)
1. Navigate to `sd:/private/ds/app/484E494A/` on your SD card
    - `sd:` is the root of the SD card
    - You will already have these directories if you have previously taken photos to your SD card via the Nintendo DSi Camera application
    - If they (or just `484E494A`) do not exist, please launch the DSi Camera application for the folder(s) to be created
1. Inside the `484E494A` folder, rename the existing `pit.bin` file to `tip.bin`
1. Place the Memory Pit `pit.bin` file in the `484E494A` folder
1. If there's a folder named `DCIM` in the root of your SD card, make a back up of it so you don't lose the pictures inside, and then remove it from the SD card


## Section III - Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the Nintendo DSi Camera application
1. Select the SD Card icon in the top-right
    - If you receive a message saying your SD card isn't inserted, please use another SD card
    - If you receive a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup.html)
1. Open the album using the large button on the right
    - The screen should flash magenta if Memory Pit was copied correctly

::: warning

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [prep work](get-started.html#section-i-prep-work) again.

:::

::: warning

If you enter the SD card camera album and nothing unusual happens, ensure that you downloaded the correct version of Memory Pit for your version and region, and placed it into the correct folder on your SD card. Also ensure that the `DCIM` folder does not exist on your SD card.

:::

::: warning

Taking photos with the Memory Pit exploit on your SD card will cause the exploit to stop working properly and you will have to copy it over again.

:::

You can now use TWiLight Menu++! First, it will ask you to select your language and region. These do not need to match your console's language or region so set them to whichever you prefer. Next it's recommended to continue on and make a NAND backup. This can potentially be used to save your console if anything bad happens in the future.

::: tip

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand.html)

:::
