_pages/en_US/alternate-exploits.md, before:

---
title: Alternate Exploits
---

{% include toc title="Table of Contents" %}

If you are introduced to a tutorial when launching the Nintendo DSi Camera application and get a crash when attempting to complete it, you cannot use Memory Pit. Here are other exploits you can use instead:

Ensure you have set up [TWiLight Menu++](launching-the-exploit#twilight-menu) on your SD card before proceeding
{: .notice-info}

Any of the below exploits should only be used as necessary. Try to use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit) when possible
{: .notice-info}

{% capture otherinstructions %}
If you're on an older firmware, you have access to save game exploits for a select [list of games](https://dsibrew.org/wiki/DSi_exploits#DSiWare(True_DSi-Mode)_Exploits).

These will not be covered here as they are largely obsolete. They should only be used as a last resort, if both Memory Pit and Flipnote Lenny aren't working for you.

petit-compwner will not be usable for the purpose of working around Memory Pit, as it requires a working camera to launch the exploit.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--primary">{{ otherinstructions | markdownify }}</div>

---

## Flipnote Lenny
### Requirements
- Flipnote Studio installed on your Nintendo DSi
   - If you do not have Flipnote Studio, you may still be able to redownload it from the Nintendo DSi Shop, if you have downloaded it previously

### Section I - SD card setup
1. Download the latest version of [Flipnote Lenny](https://davejmurphy.com/%CD%A1-%CD%9C%CA%96-%CD%A1/)
1. Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny archive to the root of your SD card

You may now eject your SD card and put it into your Nintendo DSi

### Section II - Exploiting on the Nintendo DSi

1. Power on your Nintendo DSi and launch the Flipnote Studio application
1. Open the Flipnote Studio settings on the top-right of the main menu and ensure that `Start on Calendar` is disabled and `Frog` is enabled
1. View the flipnotes stored on the SD card
1. Tap on the face corresponding to your region
   - If you have an AUS console, select EUR
1. Edit the selected flipnote
1. Tap the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
1. Tap on the second note with a larger face, and select `Edit`
1. Tap on the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select paste

If your Nintendo DSi flashes magenta but the top screen turns green while the bottom is white, then you are missing `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card.
{: .notice--warning}

You should now be looking at the Nintendo DSi Splash Screen, which is being handled by TWiLight Menu++.

Continue to [Configuring TWiLight Menu++](/launching-the-exploit#section-iii---configuring-twilight-menu)
{:.notice--info}

Commit message:

The very verbose PR (#101)
* Remove link text

It looks better this way, in my opinion

* Miscellaneous changes

In really not sure how to summarize these

* Remove mention of hiyaCFW

* Minor changes

Adds consistency with wiki, and changes GodMode9i link to DS-Homebrew instead of RocketRobz.

* Correct capitalization of no$gba and mention melonDS

* Consistency and change an explanation to a sub-bullet

* Remove mention of FreeNAND

I don't think anyone uses FreeNAND
Also, adds "Play homebrew games" to the list, and a mention of ROM hacks

* Change hardmod link to that of the DS-Homebrew Wiki

This is okay, right?

* Add periods to notices

* Link to alternate exploits page

* Misc changes

Clarifies a bullet
Adds some links

* Add some periods

* Change "good" to "healthy"

In reference to SD card testing

* Miscellaneous changes

Adds some more problems or w/e and some minor adjustments

* Mention HiyaCFW Helper in regards to photos

Also mentions how to access the Unlaunch Filemenu

* Add instructions for running the site locally

Written by Pk11

* Correct DS to DSi

* Add ninfs solution and invite for Discord server

* Elaboration on fixing FAT copies bug

Based on Pk11's instructions
Also changes "Other issues" to "Further assistance"

* Reference exact page title

* Reference exact page title

* Reference exact page titles

* Reference exact page title

Also adds "likely" because it's not *necessarily* a hiyaCFW error, yes?

* Reference exact page titles

Also clarifies condition of the NAND being saved

* Reference exact page title

_pages/en_US/alternate-exploits.md, after:

---
title: Alternate Exploits
---

{% include toc title="Table of Contents" %}

If you are introduced to a tutorial when launching the Nintendo DSi Camera application and get a crash when attempting to complete it, you cannot use Memory Pit. Here, you may find alternate exploits that may work in lieu of Memory Pit.

Ensure you have set up [TWiLight Menu++](launching-the-exploit#twilight-menu) on your SD card before proceeding.
{: .notice-info}

Any of the alternate exploits should only be used as necessary. Try to use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit) when possible.
{: .notice-info}

{% capture otherinstructions %}
If you're on an older firmware, you may have access to save game exploits for a select [list of games](https://dsibrew.org/wiki/DSi_exploits#DSiWare(True_DSi-Mode)_Exploits).

These will not be covered here as they are largely obsolete. They should only be used as a last resort, if both Memory Pit and Flipnote Lenny aren't working for you.

petit-compwner will not be usable for the purpose of working around Memory Pit, as it requires a working camera to launch the exploit.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--primary">{{ otherinstructions | markdownify }}</div>

---

## Flipnote Lenny
### Requirements
- Flipnote Studio installed on your Nintendo DSi
   - If you do not have Flipnote Studio, you may still be able to redownload it from the Nintendo DSi Shop, if you have downloaded it previously

### Section I - SD card setup
1. Download the latest version of [Flipnote Lenny](https://davejmurphy.com/%CD%A1-%CD%9C%CA%96-%CD%A1/)
1. Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny archive to the root of your SD card

You may now eject your SD card and put it into your Nintendo DSi.

### Section II - Exploiting on the Nintendo DSi

1. Power on your Nintendo DSi and launch the Flipnote Studio application
1. Open the Flipnote Studio settings on the top-right of the main menu and ensure that `Start on Calendar` is disabled and `Frog` is enabled
1. View the flipnotes stored on the SD card
1. Tap on the face corresponding to your region
   - If you have an AUS console, select EUR
1. Edit the selected flipnote
1. Tap the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
1. Tap on the second note with a larger face, and select `Edit`
1. Tap on the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select paste

If your Nintendo DSi flashes magenta but the top screen turns green while the bottom is white, then you are missing `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card.
{: .notice--warning}

You should now be looking at the TWiLight Menu++ language selection screen.

Continue to [Configuring TWiLight Menu++](/launching-the-exploit#section-iii---configuring-twilight-menu)
{:.notice--info}
