_pages/en_US/dsiware.md, before:

---
title: Dumping & Installing DSiWare
redirect_from:
  - more/dumping-dsiware-from-3ds
  - more/dumping-dsiware
  - dumping-dsiware
  - more/installing-dsiware
  - installing-dsiware
---

## Requirements
- The latest release of [maketmd](https://github.com/Tuxality/maketmd/releases){:target="_blank"} (if you're trying to convert a .app to a .tmk)
- The latest version of [GodMode9i](https://github.com/RocketRobz/godmode9i/releases)
- A Nintendo DSi console with [Unlaunch](/installing-unlaunch) installed

## Identifying the path to the .app file
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi console by holding **(A) & (B)**
2. Identify your application in the list.
   - A light green entry means that they are installed to NAND.

When you hover over the entry, the bottom screen should show the path. Take note of the path.

An example path would be `nand:/title/0030005/484e4a45/content/00000003.app`
{: .notice--info}

## Extracting the file

1. Launch GodMode9i.
2. Navigate to SYSNAND, then navigate through the path you took note of above.
3. Highlight the file, then hit Y to copy.
   - Which file you use depends on your use case. For hiyaCFW, use the `.tmd`. Otherwise, use the `.app`
4. Navigate your SD card to where you'd like to place the file
   - For hiyaCFW usage, it'll be in `/title/00030004`
5. Hit Y to paste the file.

You should now either see the .app in TWiLight Menu++ or in your home menu if you use hiyaCFW.

## Converting 3DS DSiWare Dumps (.app) to an installable format (title.tmd)

1. Copy *the contents of* the maketmd `.zip` file to a folder on your PC
2. Open the dumped folder on your PC containing your DSiWare
3. Navigate to `content`
4. Delete the `cmd` folder, and the `.tmd` file
5. Delete any `.ctx` files if they exist
6. Drag and drop the `.app` file onto the maketmd program
    - You will see a new file named `title.tmd` be created

You now have your `.tmd` file you could use for hiyaCFW

Commit message:

Accommodate recent changes (#45)
* Exploit Launch & NAND Backup.

TODO: Unlaunch general page & redirects

* More updates
TODO: Redirects and titles

* Merge two pages into one using tabs

TODO: Look over tomorrow

* Fix up tabs code

* New FAQ question, rewrote retail ROMs, table of contents and update Lenny Page

* No need for a useless long paragraph on the homepage.

We now explain things in the guide itself since the pages are so short.

* Specify boot files to pick.

TODO: Replace F3 & F3X

* WIP updates to minimalistic mistakes.

Will not work correctly.

* Port over the old UI

* Now actually boots

* Fix footer

* Notices, ads and non-ad based pages.

TODO: Top right nav bar

* Page Upgrades

TODO: SD card guide and top right of navbar

* Start off on SD prep guide

* SD card setup page, footer icons and new script
ALSO: Remove noscript since I just realized they display by default (and its no longer a bug but a feature)

* Further work

* Expand on "What is Homebrew" and "What is CFW"

* Use lsblk
ALSO: Remove additional ad.js code loading,

* Attempt to fix language button and update more libraries

Also: deprecate smooth scroll, since that's now a built in method.

* Minify min.js

* fix

* Fix up navigation links

* Fiinally, we're ready

* New forwarder guide, consistify pages and fix navigation dropdown

* Update depedencies. fix my credit link and adress issues

* Less explanation more straightforwardness

* List endpoint in site description
Just like hacks.guide

* Add tool updating section

* Update dependencies, ignore & remove unwanted files

* Background color for tabs

ALSO: include different instructions for macOS instructions

Co-authored-by: Ronny Chan <ronny6993@gmail.com>

_pages/en_US/dsiware.md, after:

---
title: DSiWare (Dump and Install)
redirect_from:
  - more/dumping-dsiware-from-3ds
  - more/dumping-dsiware
  - dumping-dsiware
  - more/installing-dsiware
  - installing-dsiware
---

{% include toc title="Instructions" %}

## Requirements
- The latest release of [maketmd](https://github.com/Tuxality/maketmd/releases/latest){:target="_blank"} (if you're trying to convert a .app to a .tmk)
- The latest version of [GodMode9i](https://github.com/RocketRobz/godmode9i/releases/latest){:target="_blank"}
- A Nintendo DSi console with [Unlaunch](/unlaunch) installed

## Main Instructions
### Identifying the path to the .app file
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi console by holding **(A) & (B)**
2. Identify your application in the list.
   - A light green entry means that they are installed to NAND.

When you hover over the entry, the bottom screen should show the path. Take note of the path.

An example path would be `nand:/title/0030005/484e4a45/content/00000003.app`
{: .notice--info}

### Extracting the file
1. Launch GodMode9i.
2. Navigate to SYSNAND, then navigate through the path you took note of above.
3. Highlight the file, then hit Y to copy.
   - Which file you use depends on your use case. For hiyaCFW, use the `.tmd`. Otherwise, use the `.app`
4. Navigate your SD card to where you'd like to place the file
   - For hiyaCFW usage, it'll be in `/title/00030004`.
5. Hit Y to paste the file.

You should now either see the .app in TWiLight Menu++ or in your home menu if you use hiyaCFW.

## Add-on instructions
### Converting 3DS DSiWare Dumps (.app) to an installable format (title.tmd)
1. Copy *the contents of* the maketmd `.zip` file to a folder on your PC
2. Open the dumped folder on your PC containing your DSiWare
3. Navigate to `content`
4. Delete the `cmd` folder, and the `.tmd` file
5. Delete any `.ctx` files if they exist
6. Drag and drop the `.app` file onto the maketmd program
    - You will see a new file named `title.tmd` be created

You now have your `.tmd` file you could use for hiyaCFW
