_pages/en_US/exploit-launch.md, before:

---
title: Launching the exploit
redirect_from:
  - /guide/installing-unlaunch
  - /guide/exploit-launch
  - /guide/flipnote-lenny
  - /installing-unlaunch
  - /flipnote-lenny
  - /guide/finalizing-setup
  - /finalizing-setup
  - /installing-twlmenu++
  - more/replacing-system-menu
  - replacing-system-menu-with-srloader
  - replacing-system-menu-with-dsimenu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twilight-menu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twlmenu++
---

{% include toc title="Instructions" %}

## Section I - SD Card Setup
Make sure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-prep).
{: .notice--warning}

The source code is not needed. You only need the actual files.
{: .notice--info}

### Section Ia - Memory Pit
1. Download the Memory Pit binary corresponding to the version and region of your Nintendo DSi system.
  - [for versions 1.0 - 1.3 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN), 1.0 - 1.4.6 (KOR, CHN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin){:target="_blank"}
  - [for versions 1.4 - 1.4.5 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/768_1024/pit.bin){:target="_blank"}

2. Place Memory Pit (`pit.bin`) in the `private/ds/app/484E494A` folder on your SD card.
   - You may create the folder if it doesn't exist.

### Section Ib - TWiLight Menu++
3. Download the latest release of [TWiLight Menu++](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/TWiLightMenu/releases/latest){:target="_blank"}
4. Copy the `boot.nds` file and the `_nds` folder from the `DSi&3DS - SD card users` folder to the root of your SD card.
5. Copy *the contents of* the `SDNAND root` folder in the `DSi - CFW users` folder to the root of your SD card.
6. Copy the `_nds` folder to the root of your SD card.
  - Replace files and merge folders, if asked.

Yes, there are two `_nds` folders. While the first one contained all the TWiLight Menu++ files, those are universal to flashcarts as well. The second `_nds` folder contains DSi/3DS specific files, such as the homebrew version of nds-boostrap.
{: .notice--info}

## Section II - Launching the exploit

{% capture memoryPitInstructions %}
### Memory Pit
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the DSi Camera application.
  - At this point in time, if you get treated to a tutorial, make sure your camera works. Otherwise, you will get a crash and would be unable to use Memory Pit.
  - If you can't use Memory Pit due to above, please switch to another get treated to an error saying "An error has occured", please switch to another exploit.
2. With your SD card inserted into your console, select the SD Card icon on the top right.
 - If you recieve a message saying your SD card isn't inserted, please use another SD card.
 - If you recieve a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, please make sure your SD card is [formatted correctly](faq#what-are-the-sd-card-requirements).
3. Select your SD card's camera album.
 - If you copied Memory Pit correctly, the system should flash magenta.
{% endcapture %}

{% capture flipnoteLennyInstructions %}
### Flipnote Lenny
1. Copy the `private` folder from the [Flipnote Lenny archive](https://davejmurphy.com/͡-͜ʖ-͡/){:target="_blank"} to the root of your SD card
2. With your SD card inserted into your powered on Nintendo DSi, launch Flipnote Studio.
3. Ensure that "Booting to Calendar" mode is disabled in the settings.
4. View the Flipnotes stored on the SD card.
5. Click on the lenny corresponding to your region (USA, JPN or EUR).
  - If you're on an AUS console, then select EUR.
6. Edit the selected Flipnote.
7. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left.
8. Click on the film roll icon.
9. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`.
10. Click the second note with a larger lenny face, and select "Edit".
11. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left.
12. Click on the film roll icon.
13. Select `Paste`.
{% endcapture %}

{% capture otherInstructions %}
### Others
If you are on an older Nintendo DSi firmware, you have access to save game exploits for a select [list of games](https://dsibrew.org/wiki/DSi_exploits#DSiWare(True_DSi-Mode)_Exploits). We will not cover them here as they are largely obsolete. Only use this as a last resort, if both Memory Pit and Flipnote Lenny aren't working for you.
  - Petit Compwner will not work, as it requires you to scan QR codes. If you're able to scan the QR codes, you should be able to use Memory Pit.
{% endcapture %}

<div id="memoryPitInstructions" class="tabcontent">{{ memoryPitInstructions | markdownify }}</div>
<div id="flipnoteLennyInstructions" class="tabcontent">{{ flipnoteLennyInstructions | markdownify }}</div>
<div id="otherInstructions" class="tabcontent">{{ otherInstructions | markdownify }}</div>
<button class="tablinks btn btn--large btn--success" id="defaultOpen" onclick="openTab(event, 'memoryPitInstructions')">Memory Pit</button>
<button class="tablinks btn btn--large btn--info" onclick="openTab(event, 'flipnoteLennyInstructions')">Flipnote Lenny</button>
<button class="tablinks btn btn--large btn--info" onclick="openTab(event, 'otherInstructions')">Others</button>

If your SD card was properly setup, the top screen should now boot into TWiLight Menu++.

If your Nintendo DSi flashes magenta but the top screen turns green while the bottom is white, then you do not have `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card.
{: .notice--warning}

You have now configured your entry point to launch TWiLight Menu++, an open-source homebrew application that can act as a replacement to the Nintendo DSi System Menu. It provides a customizable unified interface for navigating your Nintendo DSi SD card to launch a variety of titles, including Nintendo DS and Gameboy Advance.

Continue to [Taking a NAND Backup](dump-nand)
{: .notice--info}

### TWiLight Menu++ Usage
- TWiLight Menu++ is an SD card navigator. You can launch the available applications anywhere on the SD card.
- If files don't appear, they are most likely hidden using the FAT attributes of the filesystem. You can check via Windows or MacOS
   - You can view hidden files on TWiLight Menu++ by enabling the option in the TWiLight Menu++ Settings Application
   - Regardless of the settings, the `_nds` folder will always be hidden in TWiLight Menu++
- To launch GBA applications, you'll need a Gameboy Advance `bios.bin` file. This can be located either on the root of your SD card, a `gba` folder or a `_gba` folder.
  - There are three ways you can dump a BIOS: Through [a modded non-family edition Wii/GameCube with a link cable](https://github.com/FIX94/gba-link-cable-dumper), [GBA/DS (Phat + Lite) with a GBA Flashcard](https://glazedbelmont.github.io/gbabiosdump/#gameboy-advance-sp-micro-ds-ds-lite) or a [modded 3DS using most Virtual Console Titles](https://glazedbelmont.github.io/gbabiosdump/#virtual-console-title-from-a-3ds) (can't be GBA or non-nintendo).
- You can set TWiLight Menu++ to autolaunch when you power on your DSi, if you have [Unlaunch](unlaunch#switching-button-booting-combination) installed

<script>
	let tabcontent = document.getElementsByClassName("tabcontent");
	let tablinks = document.getElementsByClassName("tablinks");

	function openTab(evt, tabName) {
		let element;

		for (element of tabcontent)
			element.style.display = "none";

		for (element of tablinks) {
			element.className = element.className.replace("btn--success", "btn--info");
			if (!element.className.includes('btn--info'))
				element.className += " btn--info";
		}

		document.getElementById(tabName).style.display = "block";
		evt.currentTarget.className = evt.currentTarget.className.replace("btn--info", "btn--success");
	}

	// Get the element with id="defaultOpen" and click on it
	document.getElementById("defaultOpen").click();
</script>

Commit message:

Specify DSiWare Exploit & fix notice

_pages/en_US/exploit-launch.md, after:

---
title: Launching the exploit
redirect_from:
  - /guide/installing-unlaunch
  - /guide/exploit-launch
  - /guide/flipnote-lenny
  - /installing-unlaunch
  - /flipnote-lenny
  - /guide/finalizing-setup
  - /finalizing-setup
  - /installing-twlmenu++
  - more/replacing-system-menu
  - replacing-system-menu-with-srloader
  - replacing-system-menu-with-dsimenu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twilight-menu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twlmenu++
---

{% include toc title="Instructions" %}

## Section I - SD Card Setup
Make sure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-prep).
{: .notice--warning}

The source code is not needed. You only need the actual files.
{: .notice--info}

### Section Ia - Memory Pit
1. Download the Memory Pit binary corresponding to the version and region of your Nintendo DSi system.
  - [for versions 1.0 - 1.3 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN), 1.0 - 1.4.6 (KOR, CHN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin){:target="_blank"}
  - [for versions 1.4 - 1.4.5 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/768_1024/pit.bin){:target="_blank"}

2. Place Memory Pit (`pit.bin`) in the `private/ds/app/484E494A` folder on your SD card.
   - You may create the folder if it doesn't exist.

### Section Ib - TWiLight Menu++
3. Download the latest release of [TWiLight Menu++](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/TWiLightMenu/releases/latest){:target="_blank"}
4. Copy the `boot.nds` file and the `_nds` folder from the `DSi&3DS - SD card users` folder to the root of your SD card.
5. Copy *the contents of* the `SDNAND root` folder in the `DSi - CFW users` folder to the root of your SD card.
6. Copy the `_nds` folder to the root of your SD card.
  - Replace files and merge folders, if asked.

Yes, there are two `_nds` folders. While the first one contained all the TWiLight Menu++ files, those are universal to flashcarts as well. The second `_nds` folder contains DSi/3DS specific files, such as the homebrew version of nds-boostrap.
{: .notice--info}

## Section II - Launching the exploit

{% capture memoryPitInstructions %}
### Memory Pit
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the DSi Camera application.
  - At this point in time, if you get treated to a tutorial, make sure your camera works. Otherwise, you will get a crash and would be unable to use Memory Pit.
  - If you can't use Memory Pit due to above, please switch to another get treated to an error saying "An error has occured", please switch to another exploit.
2. With your SD card inserted into your console, select the SD Card icon on the top right.
 - If you recieve a message saying your SD card isn't inserted, please use another SD card.
 - If you recieve a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, please make sure your SD card is [formatted correctly](faq#what-are-the-sd-card-requirements).
3. Select your SD card's camera album.
 - If you copied Memory Pit correctly, the system should flash magenta.
{% endcapture %}

{% capture flipnoteLennyInstructions %}
### Flipnote Lenny
1. Copy the `private` folder from the [Flipnote Lenny archive](https://davejmurphy.com/͡-͜ʖ-͡/){:target="_blank"} to the root of your SD card
2. With your SD card inserted into your powered on Nintendo DSi, launch Flipnote Studio.
3. Ensure that "Booting to Calendar" mode is disabled in the settings.
4. View the Flipnotes stored on the SD card.
5. Click on the lenny corresponding to your region (USA, JPN or EUR).
  - If you're on an AUS console, then select EUR.
6. Edit the selected Flipnote.
7. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left.
8. Click on the film roll icon.
9. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`.
10. Click the second note with a larger lenny face, and select "Edit".
11. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left.
12. Click on the film roll icon.
13. Select `Paste`.
{% endcapture %}

{% capture otherInstructions %}
### Others
If you are on an older Nintendo DSi firmware, you have access to save game exploits for a select [list of games](https://dsibrew.org/wiki/DSi_exploits#DSiWare(True_DSi-Mode)_Exploits). We will not cover them here as they are largely obsolete. Only use this as a last resort, if both Memory Pit and Flipnote Lenny aren't working for you.
  - Petit Compwner will not work, as it requires you to scan QR codes. If you're able to scan the QR codes, you should be able to use Memory Pit.
{% endcapture %}

<div id="memoryPitInstructions" class="tabcontent">{{ memoryPitInstructions | markdownify }}</div>
<div id="flipnoteLennyInstructions" class="tabcontent">{{ flipnoteLennyInstructions | markdownify }}</div>
<div id="otherInstructions" class="tabcontent">{{ otherInstructions | markdownify }}</div>
<button class="tablinks btn btn--large btn--success" id="defaultOpen" onclick="openTab(event, 'memoryPitInstructions')">Memory Pit</button>
<button class="tablinks btn btn--large btn--info" onclick="openTab(event, 'flipnoteLennyInstructions')">Flipnote Lenny</button>
<button class="tablinks btn btn--large btn--info" onclick="openTab(event, 'otherInstructions')">Others</button>

If your SD card was properly setup, the top screen should now boot into TWiLight Menu++.

If your Nintendo DSi flashes magenta but the top screen turns green while the bottom is white, then you do not have `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card.
{: .notice--warning}

You have now configured your entry point to launch TWiLight Menu++, an open-source homebrew application that can act as a replacement to the Nintendo DSi System Menu. It provides a customizable unified interface for navigating your Nintendo DSi SD card to launch a variety of titles, including Nintendo DS and Gameboy Advance.

## Section III - Configuring TWiLight Menu++

1. Access the TWiLight Menu++ Settings. The way to access the TWiLight Menu++ settings varies between your configuration.

- DS Classic Menu: Hit the button on the very bottom
- Nintendo DSi/SEGA Saturn/Homebrew Launcher themes using SELECT Menu: Hit SELECT, then launch the Settings Applet (use the D-PAD to highlight options)
- Nintendo DSi/SEGA Saturn/Homebrew Launcher themes not using SELECT Menu: Hitting SELECT will bring you to the DS Classic Menu
- Nintendo 3DS theme: Use the touch screen to touch the wrench
- R4 Original theme: Hit START (if you're in the file browser), then hit SELECT
- Wood UI theme: Go out of the file browser (hit B a bunch), then scroll to find and launch the Settings Applet

2. Switch over to the "Misc. Settings" page.
  - You could use either the back-triggers or X & Y to switch pages.
3. Switch the "DSiWare Exploit" entry to the exploit you're using.

Continue to [Taking a NAND Backup](dump-nand)
{: .notice--info}

### TWiLight Menu++ Usage
- TWiLight Menu++ is an SD card navigator. You can launch the available applications anywhere on the SD card.
- If files don't appear, they are most likely hidden using the FAT attributes of the filesystem. You can check via Windows or MacOS
   - You can view hidden files on TWiLight Menu++ by enabling the option in the TWiLight Menu++ Settings Application
   - Regardless of the settings, the `_nds` folder will always be hidden in TWiLight Menu++
- To launch GBA applications, you'll need a Gameboy Advance `bios.bin` file. This can be located either on the root of your SD card, a `gba` folder or a `_gba` folder.
  - There are three ways you can dump a BIOS: Through [a modded non-family edition Wii/GameCube with a link cable](https://github.com/FIX94/gba-link-cable-dumper), [GBA/DS (Phat + Lite) with a GBA Flashcard](https://glazedbelmont.github.io/gbabiosdump/#gameboy-advance-sp-micro-ds-ds-lite) or a [modded 3DS using most Virtual Console Titles](https://glazedbelmont.github.io/gbabiosdump/#virtual-console-title-from-a-3ds) (can't be GBA or non-nintendo).
- You can set TWiLight Menu++ to autolaunch when you power on your DSi, if you have [Unlaunch](unlaunch#switching-button-booting-combination) installed

<script>
	let tabcontent = document.getElementsByClassName("tabcontent");
	let tablinks = document.getElementsByClassName("tablinks");

	function openTab(evt, tabName) {
		let element;

		for (element of tabcontent)
			element.style.display = "none";

		for (element of tablinks) {
			element.className = element.className.replace("btn--success", "btn--info");
			if (!element.className.includes('btn--info'))
				element.className += " btn--info";
		}

		document.getElementById(tabName).style.display = "block";
		evt.currentTarget.className = evt.currentTarget.className.replace("btn--info", "btn--success");
	}

	// Get the element with id="defaultOpen" and click on it
	document.getElementById("defaultOpen").click();
</script>
