_pages/en_US/file-extensions-(windows).md, before:

---
title: "File Extensions (Windows)"
---

{% include toc title="Table of Contents" %}

This is an add-on section for disabling Windows's default behavior of hiding file extensions.

This will make it easier for you to find the referenced files in the rest of this guide.

### Instructions

#### Windows 10 / 8.1 / 8

1. Launch File Explorer by opening any directory, such as your SD card directory.
2. Click the "View" option on the ribbon menu.
3. Check the box labeled "File name extensions".

    ![]({{ "/assets/images/windows-10-file-extensions.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}

#### Windows 7

1. Open the start menu by clicking on it or using the Windows key.
2. Search for "Folder Options" and select the corresponding result.

    ![]({{ "/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options-start-menu.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}

3. Click the "View" option at the top of the Folder Options menu.
4. Uncheck the box labeled "Hide extensions for known file types".

    ![]({{ "/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}

Commit message:

Accommodate recent changes (#45)
* Exploit Launch & NAND Backup.

TODO: Unlaunch general page & redirects

* More updates
TODO: Redirects and titles

* Merge two pages into one using tabs

TODO: Look over tomorrow

* Fix up tabs code

* New FAQ question, rewrote retail ROMs, table of contents and update Lenny Page

* No need for a useless long paragraph on the homepage.

We now explain things in the guide itself since the pages are so short.

* Specify boot files to pick.

TODO: Replace F3 & F3X

* WIP updates to minimalistic mistakes.

Will not work correctly.

* Port over the old UI

* Now actually boots

* Fix footer

* Notices, ads and non-ad based pages.

TODO: Top right nav bar

* Page Upgrades

TODO: SD card guide and top right of navbar

* Start off on SD prep guide

* SD card setup page, footer icons and new script
ALSO: Remove noscript since I just realized they display by default (and its no longer a bug but a feature)

* Further work

* Expand on "What is Homebrew" and "What is CFW"

* Use lsblk
ALSO: Remove additional ad.js code loading,

* Attempt to fix language button and update more libraries

Also: deprecate smooth scroll, since that's now a built in method.

* Minify min.js

* fix

* Fix up navigation links

* Fiinally, we're ready

* New forwarder guide, consistify pages and fix navigation dropdown

* Update depedencies. fix my credit link and adress issues

* Less explanation more straightforwardness

* List endpoint in site description
Just like hacks.guide

* Add tool updating section

* Update dependencies, ignore & remove unwanted files

* Background color for tabs

ALSO: include different instructions for macOS instructions

Co-authored-by: Ronny Chan <ronny6993@gmail.com>

_pages/en_US/file-extensions-(windows).md, after:

---
title: "File Extensions (Windows)"
---

{% include toc title="OS" %}

This is an add-on section for disabling Windows's default behavior of hiding file extensions, which will make finding referenced files in the guide much easier for you.

## Windows 10 / 8.1 / 8 users

1. Launch File Explorer by opening any directory, such as your SD card directory.
2. Click the "View" option on the ribbon menu.
3. Check the box labeled "File name extensions".

    ![]({{ "/assets/images/windows-10-file-extensions.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}

## Windows 7 users
1. Open the start menu by clicking on it or using the Windows key.
2. Search for "Folder Options" and select the corresponding result.

    ![]({{ "/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options-start-menu.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}

3. Click the "View" option at the top of the Folder Options menu.
4. Uncheck the box labeled "Hide extensions for known file types".

    ![]({{ "/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}
