_pages/en_US/flipnote-lenny.md, before:

---
title: Using Flipnote Lenny
redirect_from:
  - /guide/installing-unlaunch-legacy
  - /installing-unlaunch-legacy
---

## Requirements
- The latest release of [Flipnote ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) ("Flipnote Lenny")](https://davejmurphy.com/͡-͜ʖ-͡/){:target="_blank"}
- A copy of Flipnote Studio
 - Ensure that "Booting to Calendar" mode is disabled in the settings.

## Preparing your SD card

- Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny `.zip` file to the root of your SD card

## Launching HBMenu

1. Launch Flipnote Studio
  - Ensure that the *booting to Calendar mode* is disabled in Flipnote Studio's settings
2. Select `View Flipnote` -> `SD Card`
3. Click on the lenny corresponding to your region (USA, JPN or EUR)
  - If you're on an AUS console, then select EUR
4. Select "Edit"
5. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left
6. Click on the film roll icon
7. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
8. Click the second note with a larger lenny face, and select "Edit"
9. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left
10. Click on the film roll icon
11. Select `Paste`

Return to [Installing Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch#creating-a-nand-backup)
{: .notice--info}

Commit message:

Another Cleanup to the website (#36)
* Update faq.md

* Update home.md

- "on any DSi system" is inaccurate, since the guide doesn't cover development DSi systems.
- Explain that Unlaunch also allows launching previously-not working flashcarts
- "Memory Pit Guide" is innacurate, since we want people to go ahead and install Unlaunch too

* Update installing-unlaunch.md

- Use GodMode9i instead of HBMenu. Has use after Unlaunch is installed.
- Explain that you can delete pit.bin after the guide to get back functionality of the DSi Camera.
- Don't bother explaining the obvious "When it says `done.`, the backup is done".
- You don't need to take a picture in order for it to exist. Just make the folders.
- No need to rename `UNLAUNCH.DSI` anymore

* Update flipnote-lenny.md

Use GodMode9i instead

* Update installing-twilight-menu++.md

Remove section that I will be moving to FAQ

* Update credits.md

* Update faq.md

Add two new sections & Table of Contents

* Remove table of contents for TWiLight Page

There are only three sections. No need

* Update installing-hiyacfw.md

* Update faq.md

* Describe a reason you might want to keep UNLAUNCH.DSI

Also, describe how to get Launcher back

_pages/en_US/flipnote-lenny.md, after:

---
title: Using Flipnote Lenny
redirect_from:
  - /guide/installing-unlaunch-legacy
  - /installing-unlaunch-legacy
---

This is an *alternative* way to launch GodMode9i to install Unlaunch and backup your NAND. The way we recommend is to use [Memory Pit](installing-unlaunch).
{: .notice--info}

This is a mini-tutorial and isn't a guide in it of itself. You are expected to follow the steps of the previous page ([Installing Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch#creating-a-nand-backup)) and come back to here once Memory Pit doesn't work.
{: .notice--info}

## Requirements
- The latest release of [Flipnote ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) ("Flipnote Lenny")](https://davejmurphy.com/͡-͜ʖ-͡/){:target="_blank"}
- A copy of Flipnote Studio
  - Ensure that "Booting to Calendar" mode is disabled in the settings.

## Preparing your SD card
- Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny `.zip` file to the root of your SD card

## Launching GodMode9i
1. Launch Flipnote Studio
  - Ensure that the *booting to Calendar mode* is disabled in Flipnote Studio's settings
2. Select `View Flipnote` -> `SD Card`
3. Click on the lenny corresponding to your region (USA, JPN or EUR)
  - If you're on an AUS console, then select EUR
4. Select "Edit"
5. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left
6. Click on the film roll icon
7. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
8. Click the second note with a larger lenny face, and select "Edit"
9. Click on the Flipnote frog icon in the bottom left
10. Click on the film roll icon
11. Select `Paste`

Return to [Installing Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch#creating-a-nand-backup)
{: .notice--info}
