_pages/en_US/h2testw-(windows).md, before:

---
title: "H2testw (Windows)"
---

This is an add-on section for checking your SD card for errors using h2testw.

Depending on the size of your SD card and the speed of your computer, this process can take up to several hours!
{: .notice--info}

This page is for Windows users only. If you are not on windows, use [F3](f3-(linux)) for Linux or [F3X](f3x-(mac)) for Mac.
{: .notice--warning}

### What You Need

* The latest version of [h2testw](http://www.heise.de/ct/Redaktion/bo/downloads/h2testw_1.4.zip)

### Instructions

1. Extract the h2testw archive anywhere on your computer.
2. With your SD card inserted into your computer, run `h2testw.exe`.
3. Select which language you'd like to see h2testw in.
4. Set your SD card's drive letter as your target.
5. Ensure "all available space" is selected.
6. Click "Write + Verify".
- Wait until the process is completed.

___

If the test shows the result `Test finished without errors`, your SD card is good and you can delete all `.h2w` files on your SD card
{: .notice--info}

If the test shows any other results, your SD card may be corrupted or damaged and you may have to replace it!
{: .notice--danger}

Commit message:

Page Upgrades
TODO: SD card guide and top right of navbar

_pages/en_US/h2testw-(windows).md, after:

---
title: "H2testw (Windows)"
---

This is an add-on section for checking your SD card for errors using h2testw.

Depending on the size of your SD card and the speed of your computer, this process can take up to several hours!
{: .notice--info}

This page is for Windows users only. If you are not on windows, use [F3](f3).
{: .notice--warning}

1. Download and extract [the h2testw archive](http://www.heise.de/ct/Redaktion/bo/downloads/h2testw_1.4.zip) anywhere on your computer.
  - It can also be extracted on an external device as long as that external device isn't your SD card.
2. With your SD card inserted into your computer, run `h2testw.exe`.
3. Select which language you'd like to see h2testw in.
4. Set your SD card's drive letter as your target.
5. Ensure "all available space" is selected.
6. Click "Write + Verify".
- Wait until the process is completed.

___

If the test shows the result `Test finished without errors`, your SD card is good and you can delete all `.h2w` files on your SD card
{: .notice--info}

If the test shows any other results, your SD card may be corrupted or damaged and you may have to replace it!
{: .notice--danger}
