_pages/en_US/installing-twilight-menu++.md, before:

---
title: Installing TWiLight Menu++
redirect_from:
  - /guide/finalizing-setup
  - /finalizing-setup
  - /installing-twlmenu++
  - more/replacing-system-menu
  - replacing-system-menu-with-srloader
  - replacing-system-menu-with-dsimenu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twilight-menu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twlmenu++
---

{% include toc title="Table of Contents" %}

TWiLight Menu++ is an open-source & customizable alternative to the Nintendo DSi's System Menu. It can be used as a frontend for either nds-bootstrap or supported flashcards. It also provides a unified interface for launching NES, SNES, Gameboy (Color), SEGA GameGear, SEGA Genesis, Nintendo DS & DSiWare titles.

This will be overwriting HBMENU, but TWiLight Menu++ has the same DSi Homebrew launching code as HBMENU.
{: .notice--info}

## Downloads

- The latest release of [TWiLight Menu++](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/TWiLightMenu/releases){:target="_blank"}

## Instructions

 - Copy *the contents of* the `SDNAND root` folder in the `DSi - CFW users` folder to the root of your SD card
 - Copy the `_nds` folder to the root of your SD card
 - Copy the `boot.nds` file and the `_nds` folder from the `DSi&3DS - SD card users` folder to the root of your SD card
    - Replace files and merge folders, if asked.

Yes, there are two `_nds` folders. While the first one contained all the TWiLight Menu++ files, those are universal to flashcarts as well. The second `_nds` folder contains DSi/3DS specific files, such as the homebrew version of nds-boostrap.
{: .notice--info}

## Replacing the System Menu (if not using HiyaCFW)

You must have [Unlaunch](/guide/installing-unlaunch/) installed before proceeding.
{: .notice--info}

1. Power on your DSi while holding **(A)** & **(B)**
2. Navigate to `OPTIONS`, and press (A)
3. Press (A) to configure a default software to boot in to when no button is held
4. Navigate to the first `TWiLight Menu++`, and press (A)
  - It should say `sdmc:/boot.nds` on the bottom screen
5. Navigate to `SAVE & EXIT`, and press (A)

TWiLight Menu++ is now automatically launched when you launch your console. If you want to run DSiWare, wait for steps on how to run them to appear.

## Usage

- TWiLight Menu++ is an SD card navigator. You can launch the available applications anywhere on the SD cards.
- If files don't appear, they are most likely hidden using the FAT attributes of the filesystem. You can check via Windows or MacOS
   - You can view hidden files on TWiLight Menu++ by enabling the option in the TWiLight Menu++ Settings Application
- To launch GBA applications, you'll need a `bios.bin` file. This can be located either on the root of your SD card, a `gba` folder or a `_gba` folder.

Commit message:

Another Cleanup to the website (#36)
* Update faq.md

* Update home.md

- "on any DSi system" is inaccurate, since the guide doesn't cover development DSi systems.
- Explain that Unlaunch also allows launching previously-not working flashcarts
- "Memory Pit Guide" is innacurate, since we want people to go ahead and install Unlaunch too

* Update installing-unlaunch.md

- Use GodMode9i instead of HBMenu. Has use after Unlaunch is installed.
- Explain that you can delete pit.bin after the guide to get back functionality of the DSi Camera.
- Don't bother explaining the obvious "When it says `done.`, the backup is done".
- You don't need to take a picture in order for it to exist. Just make the folders.
- No need to rename `UNLAUNCH.DSI` anymore

* Update flipnote-lenny.md

Use GodMode9i instead

* Update installing-twilight-menu++.md

Remove section that I will be moving to FAQ

* Update credits.md

* Update faq.md

Add two new sections & Table of Contents

* Remove table of contents for TWiLight Page

There are only three sections. No need

* Update installing-hiyacfw.md

* Update faq.md

* Describe a reason you might want to keep UNLAUNCH.DSI

Also, describe how to get Launcher back

_pages/en_US/installing-twilight-menu++.md, after:

---
title: Installing TWiLight Menu++
redirect_from:
  - /guide/finalizing-setup
  - /finalizing-setup
  - /installing-twlmenu++
  - more/replacing-system-menu
  - replacing-system-menu-with-srloader
  - replacing-system-menu-with-dsimenu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twilight-menu++
  - replacing-system-menu-with-twlmenu++
---

TWiLight Menu++ is an open-source & customizable alternative to the Nintendo DSi's System Menu. It can be used as a frontend for either nds-bootstrap or supported flashcards. It also provides a unified interface for launching NES, SNES, Gameboy (Color), SEGA GameGear, SEGA Genesis, Nintendo DS & DSiWare titles.

If you have installed HBMenu, this will overwrite it. However, TWiLight Menu++ has the same DSi Homebrew launching code as HBMenu so you won't lose any functionality.
{: .notice--info}

If you haven't already done so, please rename GodMode9i from `BOOT.NDS` to anything else. Otherwise, it will get overwritten.
{: .notice--danger}

## Downloads

- The latest release of [TWiLight Menu++](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/TWiLightMenu/releases){:target="_blank"}

## Instructions

 - Copy *the contents of* the `SDNAND root` folder in the `DSi - CFW users` folder to the root of your SD card
 - Copy the `_nds` folder to the root of your SD card
 - Copy the `boot.nds` file and the `_nds` folder from the `DSi&3DS - SD card users` folder to the root of your SD card
    - Replace files and merge folders, if asked.

Yes, there are two `_nds` folders. While the first one contained all the TWiLight Menu++ files, those are universal to flashcarts as well. The second `_nds` folder contains DSi/3DS specific files, such as the homebrew version of nds-boostrap.
{: .notice--info}

You have now installed TWiLight Menu++. If you want to run DSiWare, wait for steps on how to run them to appear.

## Usage
- TWiLight Menu++ is an SD card navigator. You can launch the available applications anywhere on the SD cards.
- If files don't appear, they are most likely hidden using the FAT attributes of the filesystem. You can check via Windows or MacOS
   - You can view hidden files on TWiLight Menu++ by enabling the option in the TWiLight Menu++ Settings Application
- To launch GBA applications, you'll need a `bios.bin` file. This can be located either on the root of your SD card, a `gba` folder or a `_gba` folder.
- You can set TWiLight Menu++ to autolaunch when you power on your DSi. Read the FAQ to learn more.
