_pages/en_US/launching-the-exploit.md, before:

---
title: Launching the Exploit
---

{% include toc title="Instructions" %}

We'll start by first setting up your SD card to launch our exploit. For most users, we recommend using an exploit called "Memory Pit" which takes advantage of a flaw in how the Nintendo DSi Camera application handles image metadata.

Launching the exploit will boot you into TWiLight Menu++, a homebrew application that acts as a replacement to the DSi Menu.

## Requirements
- A way to copy downloaded files to your SD card
- An application that can extract archives, such as [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/) (Windows) or [The Unarchiver](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/the-unarchiver/id425424353) (macOS)

## Section I - SD card setup
Ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup).
{: .notice--warning}

Using a Windows, Linux or macOS device? Use [Lazy DSi Downloader](lazy-dsi-downloader) to automatically setup your SD card.
{: .notice--info}

### Memory Pit
1. Ensure that the Nintendo DSi Camera application does not show the tutorial after launch
   - If it does show, go through it until you're done
1. Download the Memory Pit binary for the version and region of your Nintendo DSi system
   - for versions [1.0 - 1.3 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin)
   - for versions [1.4 - 1.4.5 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/768_1024/pit.bin)
   - all versions [(KOR, CHN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin)
1. Make sure the following path exists on your SD card: `sd:/private/ds/app/484E494A/`
   - You will already have this directory if you have previously copied photos to your SD card via the Nintendo DSi Camera application. If so, you do not need to delete it and recreate it
   - If it does not exist, please create the individual folders
1. If there is already a `pit.bin` file in that path, create a backup of that file
1. Place the Memory Pit `pit.bin` file in this folder

For an understanding on why we're doing this, please review the [FAQ](/faq#what-functionality-will-i-lose-by-modding-my-system).
{: .notice--info}

### TWiLight Menu++
1. Download the latest release of [TWiLight Menu++](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/TWiLightMenu/releases/latest/download/TWiLightMenu-DSi.7z)
1. Extract the `_nds` folder from `TWiLightMenu-DSi.7z` to the root of your SD card
1. Extract the `BOOT.NDS` file from `TWiLightMenu-DSi.7z` to the root of your SD card

## Section II - Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the Nintendo DSi Camera application
   - If the camera on your Nintendo DSi doesn't work, you can still use Memory Pit as long as the tutorial does not appear. If the tutorial appears and crashes as you try to complete it, please use an [alternate exploit](alternate-exploits)
1. Select the SD Card icon on the top-right
   - If you receive a message saying your SD card isn't inserted, please use another SD card
   - If you receive a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup)
1. Select your SD card's camera album
   - The screen should flash magenta if Memory Pit was copied correctly

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [TWiLight Menu++ setup guide](launching-the-exploit#twilight-menu) again
{: .notice--warning}

You should now see the Nintendo DSi Splash Screen, which is being shown by TWiLight Menu++.

## Section III - Configuring TWiLight Menu++
1. When prompted, set your preferred language and region
1. Once you're in TWiLight Menu++, press SELECT to switch to the DS Classic Menu
1. Tap the button in the bottom middle to open settings
1. Use the <kbd class="l">L</kbd> and <kbd class="r">R</kbd> buttons to switch over to the "Misc. Settings" page
1. Switch the "SysNAND Region" entry to your console's region
1. Switch the "DSiWare Exploit" entry to Memory Pit
   - If you're using a different exploit, select that instead

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand)
{: .notice--info}

Commit message:

Various changes to Launching the Exploit and Installing Unlaunch pages (#96)
* Various changes to Launching the Exploit

Also:
- Moves alternate exploit suggestion up to Section I
- Adds X/Y to TWiLight Menu++ page switching instructions
- Adds notice about nothing unusual happening upon entering the SD card album
- Update TWiLight Menu++ introduction for language selection screen
- Decapitalizes "settings" in "Misc. settings"

* Clarify Launcher Patches setting

Also:
- Decapitalizes "settings" in "Unlaunch settings"
- Corrects "flashcarts"/"cartridges" to "flashcards"/"Game Cards"
- Clarifies region unlocking feature

* Change "and" to "/" in reference to buttons

_pages/en_US/launching-the-exploit.md, after:

---
title: Launching the Exploit
---

{% include toc title="Instructions" %}

We'll start by first setting up your SD card to launch our exploit. For most users, we recommend using an exploit called "Memory Pit" which takes advantage of a flaw in how the Nintendo DSi Camera application handles image metadata.

Launching the exploit will boot you into TWiLight Menu++, a homebrew application that acts as a replacement to the DSi Menu.

## Requirements
- A way to copy downloaded files to your SD card
- An application that can extract archives, such as [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/) (Windows) or [The Unarchiver](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/the-unarchiver/id425424353) (macOS)

## Section I - SD card setup
Ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup).
{: .notice--warning}

Using a Windows, Linux or macOS device? Use [Lazy DSi Downloader](lazy-dsi-downloader) to automatically setup your SD card.
{: .notice--info}

### Memory Pit
1. Ensure that the Nintendo DSi Camera application does not show the tutorial after launch
   - If it does show, go through it until you're done
     - If the tutorial crashes as you try to complete it, your Nintendo DSi camera hardware is likely broken in some way. Please use an [alternate exploit](alternate-exploits)
1. Download the Memory Pit binary for the version and region of your Nintendo DSi system
   - for versions [1.0 - 1.3 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin)
   - for versions [1.4 - 1.4.5 (USA, EUR, AUS, JPN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/768_1024/pit.bin)
   - all versions [(KOR, CHN)](https://github.com/emiyl/dsi.cfw.guide/raw/master/assets/files/memory_pit/256/pit.bin)
1. Make sure the following path exists on your SD card: `sd:/private/ds/app/484E494A/`
   - You will already have this directory if you have previously copied photos to your SD card via the Nintendo DSi Camera application. If so, you do not need to delete it and recreate it
   - If it does not exist, please create the individual folders
1. If there is already a `pit.bin` file in that path, create a backup of that file
1. Place the Memory Pit `pit.bin` file in this folder

For an understanding on why we're doing this, please review the [FAQ](/faq#what-functionality-will-i-lose-by-modding-my-system).
{: .notice--info}

### TWiLight Menu++
1. Download the latest release of [TWiLight Menu++](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/TWiLightMenu/releases/latest/download/TWiLightMenu-DSi.7z)
1. Extract the `_nds` folder from `TWiLightMenu-DSi.7z` to the root of your SD card
1. Extract the `BOOT.NDS` file from `TWiLightMenu-DSi.7z` to the root of your SD card

## Section II - Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the Nintendo DSi Camera application
1. Select the SD Card icon on the top-right
   - If you receive a message saying your SD card isn't inserted, please use another SD card
   - If you receive a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup)
1. Select your SD card's camera album
   - The screen should flash magenta if Memory Pit was copied correctly

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [TWiLight Menu++ setup guide](launching-the-exploit#twilight-menu) again
{: .notice--warning}

If you enter the SD card camera album and nothing unusual happens, ensure that you downloaded the correct version of Memory Pit for your version and region, and placed it into the correct folder on your SD card
{: .notice--warning}

You should now see the TWiLight Menu++ language selection.

## Section III - Configuring TWiLight Menu++
1. When prompted, set your preferred language and region
1. Once you're in TWiLight Menu++, press SELECT to switch to the DS Classic Menu
1. Tap the button in the bottom middle to open settings
1. Use the <kbd class="l">L</kbd> / <kbd class="r">R</kbd> or <kbd class="face">X</kbd> / <kbd class="face">Y</kbd> buttons to switch over to the "Misc. settings" page
1. Switch the "SysNAND Region" entry to your console's region
1. Switch the "DSiWare Exploit" entry to Memory Pit
   - If you're using a different exploit, select that instead

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand)
{: .notice--info}
