_pages/en_US/lazy-dsi-downloader.md, before:

---
title: Lazy DSi Downloader
---

"Lazy DSi Downloader" is a tool for simplifying the process of modding a Nintendo DSi Console.

## Verification steps

1. Turn on your Nintendo DSi
1. Launch into the Nintendo DSi Camera Application

If at this point you get a tutorial and crash when trying to follow it, then you cannot use Memory Pit.

## Setup Guide

1. If you are on Windows, download & install the latest version of [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/download.html)
   - This will not work with any other archive extractor tool you own, such as WinRAR. The Lazy DSi File Downloader relies on 7-Zip itself, and not a general archive extractor
1. Download the latest release of [Lazy DSi File Downloader](https://github.com/yourkalamity/lazy-dsi-file-downloader/releases) for your OS
1. Launch it via the instructions listed in the release page
1. Hit the Next button
   - The intro text isn't mandatory to read
1. If you have got a crash in your verification steps, toggle off the Memory Pit option
1. Hit the check boxes for "Download GodMode9i" and "Download Unlaunch"
   - Feel free to select any of the other homebrew applications in `Additional homebrew...`, but this is not mandatory
1. Wait for everything to download, then hit Finish

Commit message:

Link to alternate exploits page

_pages/en_US/lazy-dsi-downloader.md, after:

---
title: Lazy DSi Downloader
---

"Lazy DSi Downloader" is a tool for simplifying the process of modding a Nintendo DSi Console.

## Verification steps

1. Turn on your Nintendo DSi
1. Launch into the Nintendo DSi Camera Application

If at this point you get a tutorial and crash when trying to follow it, then you cannot use Memory Pit. Please see the [alternate exploits](alternate-exploits) page instead.

## Setup Guide

1. If you are on Windows, download & install the latest version of [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/download.html)
   - This will not work with any other archive extractor tool you own, such as WinRAR. The Lazy DSi File Downloader relies on 7-Zip itself, and not a general archive extractor
1. Download the latest release of [Lazy DSi File Downloader](https://github.com/yourkalamity/lazy-dsi-file-downloader/releases) for your OS
1. Launch it via the instructions listed in the release page
1. Hit the Next button
   - The intro text isn't mandatory to read
1. If you have got a crash in your verification steps, toggle off the Memory Pit option
1. Hit the check boxes for "Download GodMode9i" and "Download Unlaunch"
   - Feel free to select any of the other homebrew applications in `Additional homebrew...`, but this is not mandatory
1. Wait for everything to download, then hit Finish
