docs/alternate-exploits.md, before:

---
title: Alternate Exploits
---

If you are introduced to a tutorial when launching the Nintendo DSi Camera application and get a crash when attempting to complete it, you cannot use Memory Pit. Here, you may find alternate exploits that may work in lieu of Memory Pit.

::: tip

Ensure you have set up [TWiLight Menu++](launching-the-exploit.html#twilight-menu) on your SD card before proceeding.

:::

::: tip

Any of the alternate exploits should only be used as necessary. Try to use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit) when possible.

:::

::: tip

If you're on an older firmware, you may have access to save game exploits for a select [list of games](https://dsibrew.org/wiki/DSi_exploits#DSiWare(True_DSi-Mode)_Exploits).

These will not be covered here as they are largely obsolete. They should only be used as a last resort, if both Memory Pit and Flipnote Lenny aren't working for you.

petit-compwner will not be usable for the purpose of working around Memory Pit, as it requires a working camera to launch the exploit.

:::

***

## Flipnote Lenny
### Requirements
- Flipnote Studio installed on your Nintendo DSi
   - If you do not have Flipnote Studio, you may still be able to redownload it from the Nintendo DSi Shop, if you have downloaded it previously

### Section I - SD card setup
1. Download the latest version of [Flipnote Lenny](https://davejmurphy.com/%CD%A1-%CD%9C%CA%96-%CD%A1/)
1. Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny archive to the root of your SD card

You may now eject your SD card and put it into your Nintendo DSi.

### Section II - Exploiting on the Nintendo DSi

1. Power on your Nintendo DSi and launch the Flipnote Studio application
1. Open the Flipnote Studio settings on the top-right of the main menu and ensure that `Start on Calendar` is disabled and `Frog` is enabled
1. View the flipnotes stored on the SD card
1. Tap on the face corresponding to your region
   - If you have an AUS console, select EUR
1. Edit the selected flipnote
1. Tap the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
1. Tap on the second note with a larger face, and select `Edit`
1. Tap on the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select paste

::: warning

If your Nintendo DSi flashes magenta but the top screen turns green while the bottom is white, then you are missing `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card.

:::

You should now be looking at the TWiLight Menu++ language selection screen.

::: tip

Continue to [Configuring TWiLight Menu++](launching-the-exploit.html#section-iii-configuring-twilight-menu)

:::

Commit message:

Link to 'what is the root' image

docs/alternate-exploits.md, after:

---
title: Alternate Exploits
---

If you are introduced to a tutorial when launching the Nintendo DSi Camera application and get a crash when attempting to complete it, you cannot use Memory Pit. Here, you may find alternate exploits that may work in lieu of Memory Pit.

::: tip

Ensure you have set up [TWiLight Menu++](launching-the-exploit.html#twilight-menu) on your SD card before proceeding.

:::

::: tip

Any of the alternate exploits should only be used as necessary. Try to use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit) when possible.

:::

::: tip

If you're on an older firmware, you may have access to save game exploits for a select [list of games](https://dsibrew.org/wiki/DSi_exploits#DSiWare(True_DSi-Mode)_Exploits).

These will not be covered here as they are largely obsolete. They should only be used as a last resort, if both Memory Pit and Flipnote Lenny aren't working for you.

petit-compwner will not be usable for the purpose of working around Memory Pit, as it requires a working camera to launch the exploit.

:::

***

## Flipnote Lenny
### Requirements
- Flipnote Studio installed on your Nintendo DSi
   - If you do not have Flipnote Studio, you may still be able to redownload it from the Nintendo DSi Shop, if you have downloaded it previously

### Section I - SD card setup
1. Download the latest version of [Flipnote Lenny](https://davejmurphy.com/%CD%A1-%CD%9C%CA%96-%CD%A1/)
1. Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny archive to the root of your SD card

::: tip

Unsure what the SD "root" is? [See this image](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/489307733074640926/756947922804932739/wherestheroot.png)

:::

You may now eject your SD card and put it into your Nintendo DSi.

### Section II - Exploiting on the Nintendo DSi

1. Power on your Nintendo DSi and launch the Flipnote Studio application
1. Open the Flipnote Studio settings on the top-right of the main menu and ensure that `Start on Calendar` is disabled and `Frog` is enabled
1. View the flipnotes stored on the SD card
1. Tap on the face corresponding to your region
   - If you have an AUS console, select EUR
1. Edit the selected flipnote
1. Tap the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
1. Tap on the second note with a larger face, and select `Edit`
1. Tap on the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select paste

::: warning

If your Nintendo DSi flashes magenta but the top screen turns green while the bottom is white, then you are missing `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card.

:::

You should now be looking at the TWiLight Menu++ language selection screen.

::: tip

Continue to [Configuring TWiLight Menu++](launching-the-exploit.html#section-iii-configuring-twilight-menu)

:::
