docs/credits.md, before:

# Credits

This is the credits for those who have helped out with the guide website, homebrew, and other things.

If you like what they have done, consider donating (if they have a donation link).

- [NightScript](https://nightscript370.github.io/), [Pk11](https://pk11.us/) & [Peter0x44](https://github.com/Peter0x44): Guide maintainers
- [YourKalamity](https://github.com/YourKalamity): Creator of Lazy DSi File Downloader
- [emiyl](https://emiyl.com/paypal): Domain holder
- Halvorsen: Provided an image of their Nintendo DSi to be used on the home page
- [shutterbug2000](https://paypal.me/projectkaeru): Discoverer & Developer of DSi Camera & Flipnote Studio exploits
- [nathanfarlow](https://github.com/nathanfarlow): Discoverer & Developer of DSi Browser exploit
- [WinterMute](https://devkitpro.org/support-devkitpro): Maintainer of the DS Homebrew development toolchain & forked the ugopwn Flipnote Studio exploit to make Flipnote Lenny (supports all firmwares and regions)
- [nocash](http://problemkaputt.de/donate.htm): Developer of Unlaunch
- [RocketRobz](https://github.com/RocketRobz): Developer of TWiLight Menu++ & GodMode9i
- [zoogie](https://github.com/zoogie): Developer of dumpTool & forked Memory Pit to support all regions and firmwares
- [Plailect](https://github.com/Plailect): Made the original 3DS Modding Guide, which this took inspiration from

You can contribute to our guide too by simply [sending in a pull request](https://github.com/cfw-guide/dsi.cfw.guide/)!

If you know other languages, you can help us by translating the guide into that language. You can join our [Crowdin Project](https://crowdin.com/project/dsi-guide) to get started.

Commit message:

Update `Choosing a Menu` page to link to new pages for installing TWLMenu++ and akmenu-nest
The `After installation` section has been moved to the new installation pages

docs/credits.md, after:

# Credits

This is the credits for those who have helped out with the guide website, homebrew, and other things.

If you like what they have done, consider donating (if they have a donation link).

- [NightScript](https://nightscript370.github.io/), [Pk11](https://pk11.us/) & [Peter0x44](https://github.com/Peter0x44): Guide maintainers
- [emiyl](https://emiyl.com/paypal): Domain holder
- Halvorsen: Provided an image of their Nintendo DSi to be used on the home page
- [shutterbug2000](https://paypal.me/projectkaeru): Discoverer & Developer of DSi Camera & Flipnote Studio exploits
- [nathanfarlow](https://github.com/nathanfarlow): Discoverer & Developer of DSi Browser exploit
- [WinterMute](https://devkitpro.org/support-devkitpro): Maintainer of the DS Homebrew development toolchain & forked the ugopwn Flipnote Studio exploit to make Flipnote Lenny (supports all firmwares and regions)
- [nocash](http://problemkaputt.de/donate.htm): Developer of Unlaunch
- [RocketRobz](https://github.com/RocketRobz): Developer of TWiLight Menu++ & GodMode9i, and contributor to hiyaCFW
- [Kei](https://github.com/coderkei): Developer of AKMenu-Next and writer of the AKMenu-Next installation steps from [Flashcart Guides](https://sanrax.github.io/flashcart-guides/tutorials/akmenu-next/#__tabbed_1_2)
- [zoogie](https://github.com/zoogie): Developer of dumpTool & forked Memory Pit to support all regions and firmwares
- [Plailect](https://github.com/Plailect): Made the original 3DS Modding Guide, which this took inspiration from

You can contribute to our guide too by simply [sending in a pull request](https://github.com/cfw-guide/dsi.cfw.guide/)!

If you know other languages, you can help us by translating the guide into that language. You can join our [Crowdin Project](https://crowdin.com/project/dsi-guide) to get started.
