docs/dumping-game-cards.md, before:

---
title: Dumping Game Cards
---

This section is for dumping Game Cards using GodMode9i so they can be played on emulators, flashcards, or your SD card via nds-bootstrap.

## Requirements
- The Game Card of the title you would like to dump
- Your Nintendo DSi console with [Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch) installed

## Instructions
### Section I - SD card setup

::: tip

Using a Windows, Linux or macOS device? Use [Lazy DSi Downloader](lazy-dsi-downloader) to automatically setup your SD card.

:::

1. Download the latest release of [GodMode9i](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/releases)
1. Extract `GodMode9i.nds` from the GodMode9i archive and place it anywhere on your SD card

### Section II - Nintendo DSi instructions
1. Power on your console while holding <kbd class="face">A</kbd> and <kbd class="face">B</kbd>
   - This should launch the Unlaunch Filemenu
1. Launch GodMode9i from the Unlaunch Filemenu
1. Ensure the Game Card is inserted into the console
1. Select the "NDS GAMECARD" option in GodMode9i
1. Select if you want the padding or not:
   - Full: Padding included
   - Trim: Padding removed
1. Repeat steps 3-5 for all Game Cards you wish to dump

::: tip

The dumped Game Cards will be found in `sd:/gm9i/out`.

:::

Commit message:

Update dumping instructions for GodMode9i v3.2.0 (#120)
* Update game card dumping for next GodMode9i

* Update DSiWare dumping instructions

* Derp fix: Should be roman numbers for the section

docs/dumping-game-cards.md, after:

---
title: Dumping Game Cards
---

This section is for dumping Game Cards using GodMode9i so they can be played on emulators, flashcards, or your SD card via nds-bootstrap.

## Requirements
- The Game Card of the title you would like to dump
- Your Nintendo DSi console with [Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch) installed

## Instructions
### Section I - SD card setup

::: tip

Using a Windows, Linux or macOS device? Use [Lazy DSi Downloader](lazy-dsi-downloader) to automatically setup your SD card.

:::

1. Download the latest release of [GodMode9i](https://github.com/DS-Homebrew/GodMode9i/releases)
1. Extract `GodMode9i.nds` from the GodMode9i archive and place it anywhere on your SD card

### Section II - Nintendo DSi instructions
1. Launch GodMode9i
1. Ensure the Game Card is inserted into the console
1. Select the "NDS GAMECARD" option in GodMode9i
1. Select what you want to dump
   - The "Trimmed" options for the ROM will dump a smaller file that can save SD card space, however they won't work for most patches such as ROM hacks
1. Repeat steps 2-4 for all Game Cards you wish to dump

::: tip

The dumped Game Cards will be found in `sd:/gm9i/out`.

:::
