docs/dumping-nand.md, before:

---
title: Dumping NAND
---

This page is for making a NAND backup, which is a copy of the data on the Nintendo DSi's internal storage. It can be used to set up hiyaCFW, as well as no$gba and melonDS for DSi emulation.

::: tip

It is highly recommended that you do this. A NAND backup can be used as a restore point in the future, in case of a brick.

:::

## Section I - SD card setup

::: tip

Using a Windows, Linux or macOS device? Use [Lazy DSi Downloader](lazy-dsi-downloader) to automatically setup your SD card.

:::

1. Download the latest release of [dumpTool](https://github.com/zoogie/dumpTool/releases/latest/download/dumpTool.nds)
1. Place `dumpTool.nds` anywhere on your SD card

## Section II - Dumping the NAND
1. Launch `dumpTool` through TWiLight Menu++
1. Hit the <kbd class="face">A</kbd> button on your Nintendo DSi to start dumping your NAND
   - A NAND backup typically takes around 7 minutes
1. When the NAND backup is complete, hit the <kbd>START</kbd> button on your Nintendo DSi to exit dumpTool
1. Power off your console and insert your SD card back into your device
1. Store this backup somewhere safe, where you won't lose it
   - If possible, make multiple backups across different storage devices
   - Once you've backed it up elsewhere, you can delete it from the SD card

::: warning

The SHA1 hash of the `nand.bin` will not match the hash stored in `nand.bin.sha1`. This is because dumpTool adds additional data known as a no$gba footer to the `nand.bin` file after the SHA1 hash is calculated. You can use the [hiyaCFW Helper](https://github.com/mondul/HiyaCFW-Helper/releases) to create a copy without the footer.

:::

::: tip

Continue to [Installing Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch) (Optional, not compatible with Nintendo DSi development consoles)

:::

Commit message:

Add Flipnote Lenny exploit setup page for users without Unlaunch (#139)
* Make Flipnote Lenny a main exploit

ALSO: Remove unneeded TWiLight Menu++ steps

* Update faq.md

* Update faq.md

* Update alternate-exploits.md

* Move Memory Pit steps into new page

* Update docs/launching-the-flipnote-exploit.md

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>

* Move Unlaunch explanation to FAQs

* Update launching-the-exploit.md

* Explain exploit options on home page, single pros/cons FAQ

Also:
- Removes leftovers from Memory Pit from the Lenny page
- Adds tabs to the Unlaunch page for cleanup up for Memory Pit/Lenny

* Mention that Flipnote is needed for Flipnote Lenny on index page

* Minor wording tweak

* Swap order of exploits in FAQ

* Rename file-extensions-(windows) to not have ()

* Fix several links missing .html

It's not strictly needed, but VuePress doesn't like it missing and sometimes bugs out a bit

* Derp fix

* Typo fix

* Add "Get Started" page

Note: I made a minor change to "the alternate method below"

Co-Authored-By: lifehackerhansol <lifehackerhansol@outlook.com>

* Move TWiLight & dumpTool download to Get Started

Co-Authored-By: lifehackerhansol <lifehacker@hansol.ca>

* A few wording and formatting tweaks

* Move SD and 7-Zip requirements to Get Started

* Fix links to install TWiLight

I used prep work for things that come shortly after that where dumpTool will still be needed, but I switched it to link the wiki in the FAQ and such

* Derp fix

* Improve lang select/continue to NAND backup part

* Improve a couple FAQs

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: lifehackerhansol <lifehackerhansol@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: lifehackerhansol <lifehacker@hansol.ca>

docs/dumping-nand.md, after:

---
title: Dumping NAND
---

This page is for making a NAND backup, which is a copy of the data on the Nintendo DSi's internal storage. It can be used to set up hiyaCFW, as well as no$gba and melonDS for DSi emulation.

::: tip

It is highly recommended that you do this. A NAND backup can be used as a restore point in the future, in case of a brick.

:::

## Section I - SD card setup

::: tip

If you have already downloaded dumpTool from another section of this guide, you can skip this section.

:::

1. Download the latest release of [dumpTool](https://github.com/zoogie/dumpTool/releases/latest/download/dumpTool.nds)
1. Place `dumpTool.nds` anywhere on your SD card


## Section II - Dumping the NAND

1. Launch `dumpTool` through TWiLight Menu++
1. Hit the <kbd class="face">A</kbd> button on your Nintendo DSi to start dumping your NAND
   - A NAND backup typically takes around 7 minutes
1. When the NAND backup is complete, hit the <kbd>START</kbd> button on your Nintendo DSi to exit dumpTool
1. Power off your console and insert your SD card back into your device
1. Store this backup somewhere safe, where you won't lose it
   - If possible, make multiple backups across different storage devices
   - Once you've backed it up elsewhere, you can delete it from the SD card

::: warning

The SHA1 hash of the `nand.bin` will not match the hash stored in `nand.bin.sha1`. This is because dumpTool adds additional data known as a no$gba footer to the `nand.bin` file after the SHA1 hash is calculated. You can use the [hiyaCFW Helper](https://github.com/mondul/HiyaCFW-Helper/releases) to create a copy without the footer.

:::

::: tip

Continue to [Installing Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch.html) (Optional)

:::
