docs/file-extensions-windows.md, before:

---
title: File Extensions (Windows)
---

This is an add-on section for disabling Windows's default behavior of hiding file extensions, which will make finding referenced files in the guide much easier for you.

## Windows 10 / 8.1 / 8 users
1. Launch File Explorer by opening any directory, such as your SD card directory
1. Click the "View" option on the ribbon menu
1. Check the box labeled "File name extensions"
   ![Screenshot of hovering the "File name extensions" checkbox on Windows 10](/assets/images/windows-10-file-extensions.png)

## Windows 7 users
1. Open the start menu by clicking on it or using the Windows key
1. Search for "Folder Options" and select the corresponding result
   ![Screenshot of a search for "folder options" in the Windows 7 Start Menu](/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options-start-menu.png)
1. Click the "View" option at the top of the Folder Options menu
1. Make sure the box labeled "Hide extensions for known file types" is unchecked
   ![Screenshot of the "Folder Options" window on Windows 7 with "Hide extensions for known types" turned off](/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options.png)

Commit message:

Add steps for show file extensions on Windows 11 / Update installing unlaunch page steps (#140)
* Add image for the showing file extensions page

Courtesy of SNBeast :D

* Add steps for W11 users

* Changed indications to match newer versions of TWLMenu++

Also added indications to restore the DCIM folder of the root once Memory Pit is uninstalled

* Made tabs for diferent windows versions instead of listing them all

I think the tabs are correctly set up, otherwise, please correct it

* Made W11 tab default

Whoops

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>

* Removed artifact from copy-pasting

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>

docs/file-extensions-windows.md, after:

---
title: File Extensions (Windows)
---

This is an add-on section for disabling Windows's default behavior of hiding file extensions, which will make finding referenced files in the guide much easier for you.

::::: tabs

:::: tab name="Windows 11" default

1. Launch File Explorer by opening any directory, such as your SD card directory
1. Click the "View" option on the top bar
   - If the option is not present, click the `···` button on the rightmost part of the top bar 
3. Click or hove your cursor on the `Show >` sumbenu
4. Check the option labeled `File name xtensions`
   ![Screenshot of hovering the "File name extensions" checkbox on Windows 11](/assets/images/windows-11-file-extensions.png)
   
::::
   
:::: tab name="Windows 10 / 8.1 / 8"

1. Launch File Explorer by opening any directory, such as your SD card directory
1. Click the "View" option on the ribbon menu
1. Check the box labeled "File name extensions"
   ![Screenshot of hovering the "File name extensions" checkbox on Windows 10](/assets/images/windows-10-file-extensions.png)
   
::::

:::: tab name="Windows 7 / Vista / XP"

1. Open the start menu by clicking on it or using the Windows key
1. Search for "Folder Options" and select the corresponding result
   ![Screenshot of a search for "folder options" in the Windows 7 Start Menu](/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options-start-menu.png)
1. Click the "View" option at the top of the Folder Options menu
1. Make sure the box labeled "Hide extensions for known file types" is unchecked
   ![Screenshot of the "Folder Options" window on Windows 7 with "Hide extensions for known types" turned off](/assets/images/windows-7-folder-options.png)

::::

:::::
