docs/launching-the-flipnote-exploit.md, before:

---
title: Launching the Exploit (Flipnote Lenny)
---

We'll start by first setting up your SD card to launch our exploit. For the best Unlaunch-free experience, we recommend using an exploit called "Flipnote Lenny" which takes advantage of a flaw in how the Flipnote Studio application handles flipnotes.

Launching the exploit will boot you into TWiLight Menu++, a homebrew application that acts as a replacement to the DSi Menu.


## Requirements

- Flipnote Studio installed on your Nintendo DSi
   - If you do not have Flipnote Studio, then use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit.html) instead


## Section I - SD card setup

1. Download the latest version of [Flipnote Lenny](https://davejmurphy.com/%CD%A1-%CD%9C%CA%96-%CD%A1/)
1. Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny archive to the root of your SD card


## Section II - Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the Flipnote Studio application
1. Open the Flipnote Studio settings on the top-right of the main menu and ensure that `Start on Calendar` is disabled and `Frog` is enabled
1. View the flipnotes stored on the SD card
1. Tap on the face corresponding to your region
   - If you have an AUS console, select EUR
1. Edit the selected flipnote
1. Tap the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
1. Tap on the second note with a larger face, and select `Edit`
1. Tap on the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select paste

::: warning

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [prep work](get-started.html#section-i-prep-work) again.

:::

You can now use TWiLight Menu++! First, it will ask you to select your language and region. These do not need to match your console's language or region so set them to whichever you prefer. Next it's recommended to continue on and make a NAND backup. This can potentially be used to save your console if anything bad happens in the future.

::: tip

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand.html)

:::

Commit message:

Add notations for SD card issues

docs/launching-the-flipnote-exploit.md, after:

---
title: Launching the Exploit (Flipnote Lenny)
---

We'll start by first setting up your SD card to launch our exploit. For the best Unlaunch-free experience, we recommend using an exploit called "Flipnote Lenny" which takes advantage of a flaw in how the Flipnote Studio application handles flipnotes.

Launching the exploit will boot you into TWiLight Menu++, a homebrew application that acts as a replacement to the DSi Menu.


## Requirements

- Flipnote Studio installed on your Nintendo DSi
   - If you do not have Flipnote Studio, then use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit.html) instead


## Section I - SD card setup

1. Download the latest version of [Flipnote Lenny](https://davejmurphy.com/%CD%A1-%CD%9C%CA%96-%CD%A1/)
1. Copy the `private` folder from the Flipnote Lenny archive to the root of your SD card


## Section II - Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the Flipnote Studio application
   - If you receive a message saying that your SD card cannot be used, ensure your SD card is [formatted correctly](sd-card-setup.html)
1. Open the Flipnote Studio settings on the top-right of the main menu and ensure that `Start on Calendar` is disabled and `Frog` is enabled
1. View the flipnotes stored on the SD card
   - If you are unable to view the flipnotes on the SD card, please use another SD card
1. Tap on the face corresponding to your region
   - If you have an AUS console, select EUR
1. Edit the selected flipnote
1. Tap the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select `Copy` -> `Back` -> `Exit`
1. Tap on the second note with a larger face, and select `Edit`
1. Tap on the frog icon on the bottom-left
1. Tap on the film roll icon
1. Select paste

::: warning

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [prep work](get-started.html#section-i-prep-work) again.

:::

You can now use TWiLight Menu++! First, it will ask you to select your language and region. These do not need to match your console's language or region so set them to whichever you prefer. Next it's recommended to continue on and make a NAND backup. This can potentially be used to save your console if anything bad happens in the future.

::: tip

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand.html)

:::
