docs/launching-the-browser-exploit.md, before:

# Launching the Exploit (stylehax)

We'll start by first launching our exploit. For the best Unlaunch-free experience, or if the DSi camera is broken to install Unlaunch, we recommend using an exploit called "stylehax" which takes advantage of a flaw in how the DSi Browser application handles webpages.

Launching the exploit will boot you into TWiLight Menu++, a homebrew application that acts as a replacement to the DSi Menu.


## Requirements

- Nintendo DSi Browser installed on your Nintendo DSi
    - If you do not have the DSi Browser, then use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit.html) instead


## Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the DSi Browser application
1. Touch the `Go to Page` button
    - The button will have a green `www` icon
1. Type `opera:about`, and touch `Go` to load the page
1. Touch the HOME icon
1. Touch the `Go to Page` button
1. Type `stylehax.net`, and touch `Go` to load the page

::: tip

The exploit should take 21 seconds to take effect. If it takes longer than 30 seconds, then reboot, and try again.

:::

::: warning

If the top screen turns green, you do not have TWiLight Menu++'s `BOOT.NDS` on the root of your SD card. Follow the [prep work](get-started.html#section-i-prep-work) again.

:::

You can now use **TW**i**L**ight Menu++! First, it will ask you to select your language and region. These do not need to match your console's language or region, so set them to whichever you prefer. Next, it's recommended to continue on and make a NAND backup. This can potentially be used to save your console if anything bad happens in the future.

::: tip

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand.html)

:::

Commit message:

Add new page to choose one of three menus (#192)
* Add new page to choose one of three menus

* Update dumping-nand.md

* Update faq.md

* Add "Choosing a Menu" to site navigation

* Update en_US.json

* Update hiyaCFW description and add another con for TWLMenu++

* Update choosing-a-menu.md

* Update choosing-a-menu.md

* Update choosing-a-menu.md

* Update choosing-a-menu.md

* Remove a rename step for dumpTool

* Add choosing TWLMenu++ if unsure which menu to use

* Swap `No/With Custom Patches and Background` sections

ALSO: Add another step in `No Custom Patches and Background` for TWLMenu++ users

* Update get-started.md

* Update choosing-a-menu.md

* Update choosing-a-menu.md

docs/launching-the-browser-exploit.md, after:

# Launching the Exploit (stylehax)

We'll start by first launching our exploit. For the best Unlaunch-free experience, or if the DSi camera is broken to install Unlaunch, we recommend using an exploit called "stylehax" which takes advantage of a flaw in how the DSi Browser application handles webpages.


## Requirements

- Nintendo DSi Browser installed on your Nintendo DSi
    - If you do not have the DSi Browser, then use [Memory Pit](launching-the-exploit.html) instead


## Launching the exploit

1. Ensure your SD card is inserted into your Nintendo DSi
1. Boot your Nintendo DSi and launch the DSi Browser application
1. Touch the `Go to Page` button
    - The button will have a green `www` icon
1. Type `opera:about`, and touch `Go` to load the page
1. Touch the HOME icon
1. Touch the `Go to Page` button
1. Type `stylehax.net`, and touch `Go` to load the page

::: tip

The exploit should take 21 seconds to take effect. If it takes longer than 30 seconds, then reboot, and try again.

:::

::: warning

If the top screen turns green, you do not have `boot.nds` (which is dumpTool in this case) on the root of your SD card. Follow the [prep work](get-started.html#section-i-prep-work) again.

:::

If the dumpTool menu appears, continue on and make a NAND backup. This can potentially be used to save your console if anything bad happens in the future.

::: tip

Continue to [Dumping NAND](dumping-nand.html)

:::
