docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
---

## Unlaunch
### Unlaunch freezes at `MISMATCH IN FAT COPIES`

twlnf has a critical bug where it does not properly update the entire NAND after modifying it, which causes certain homebrew (like the Unlaunch installer) to throw an error.

To fix this, open [NAND Title Manager (NTM)](https://github.com/Epicpkmn11/NTM/releases), and select `Fix FAT copy mismatch`.

### There is no audio or boot splash when launching "Launcher" using Unlaunch

The developer of Unlaunch (nocash) has intentionally patched out the background audio and boot-splash by default. You can regain these effects by [reinstalling Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch) using TWiLight Menu++, or by using [hiyaCFW](https://wiki.ds-homebrew.com/hiyacfw/installing).

### Powering on only shows a black screen after installing Unlaunch

Try ejecting the SD card and powering the console on again. If it still only shows a black screen, you may need to flash your NAND via a [hardmod](https://wiki.ds-homebrew.com/ds-index/hardmod).

### After installing Unlaunch, I'm stuck booting into an application or the Unlaunch Filemenu

This was likely caused by choosing the wrong app for the `NO BUTTON` option in Unlaunch. Hold <kbd class="face">A</kbd> + <kbd class="face">B</kbd> while starting the console, go to `OPTIONS`, and set `NO BUTTON` to whatever your preference is.

### Other Unlaunch problems

If Unlaunch displays `Clusters too large`, `Bad VBR`, `Bad MBR`, or doesn't display any applications while the SD card is inserted, your SD card likely wasn't formatted correctly. Re-follow [SD Card Setup](sd-card-setup).

## TWiLight Menu++

For general TWiLight Menu++ troubleshooting, see its [FAQ & Troubleshooting](https://wiki.ds-homebrew.com/twilightmenu/faq) page on the DS-Homebrew Wiki.

## Further assistance

If you have encountered an issue that is not solved here, or one that persists despite the given solutions, ask for assistance in the [DS<sup>(i)</sup> Mode Hacking!](https://discord.gg/yD3spjv) Discord server.

Commit message:

Add Flipnote Lenny exploit setup page for users without Unlaunch (#139)
* Make Flipnote Lenny a main exploit

ALSO: Remove unneeded TWiLight Menu++ steps

* Update faq.md

* Update faq.md

* Update alternate-exploits.md

* Move Memory Pit steps into new page

* Update docs/launching-the-flipnote-exploit.md

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>

* Move Unlaunch explanation to FAQs

* Update launching-the-exploit.md

* Explain exploit options on home page, single pros/cons FAQ

Also:
- Removes leftovers from Memory Pit from the Lenny page
- Adds tabs to the Unlaunch page for cleanup up for Memory Pit/Lenny

* Mention that Flipnote is needed for Flipnote Lenny on index page

* Minor wording tweak

* Swap order of exploits in FAQ

* Rename file-extensions-(windows) to not have ()

* Fix several links missing .html

It's not strictly needed, but VuePress doesn't like it missing and sometimes bugs out a bit

* Derp fix

* Typo fix

* Add "Get Started" page

Note: I made a minor change to "the alternate method below"

Co-Authored-By: lifehackerhansol <lifehackerhansol@outlook.com>

* Move TWiLight & dumpTool download to Get Started

Co-Authored-By: lifehackerhansol <lifehacker@hansol.ca>

* A few wording and formatting tweaks

* Move SD and 7-Zip requirements to Get Started

* Fix links to install TWiLight

I used prep work for things that come shortly after that where dumpTool will still be needed, but I switched it to link the wiki in the FAQ and such

* Derp fix

* Improve lang select/continue to NAND backup part

* Improve a couple FAQs

Co-authored-by: Pk11 <epicpkmn11@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: lifehackerhansol <lifehackerhansol@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: lifehackerhansol <lifehacker@hansol.ca>

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
---

## Unlaunch
### Unlaunch freezes at `MISMATCH IN FAT COPIES`

twlnf has a critical bug where it does not properly update the entire NAND after modifying it, which causes certain homebrew (like the Unlaunch installer) to throw an error.

To fix this, open [NAND Title Manager (NTM)](https://github.com/Epicpkmn11/NTM/releases), and select `Fix FAT copy mismatch`.

### There is no audio or boot splash when launching "Launcher" using Unlaunch

The developer of Unlaunch (nocash) has intentionally patched out the background audio and boot-splash by default. You can regain these effects by [reinstalling Unlaunch](installing-unlaunch.html) using TWiLight Menu++ with "Launcher Patches" disabled on the Unlaunch page of TWiLight Menu++ settings, or by using [hiyaCFW](https://wiki.ds-homebrew.com/hiyacfw/installing).

### Powering on only shows a black screen after installing Unlaunch

Try ejecting the SD card and powering the console on again. If it still only shows a black screen, you may need to flash your NAND via a [hardmod](https://wiki.ds-homebrew.com/ds-index/hardmod).

### After installing Unlaunch, I'm stuck booting into an application or the Unlaunch Filemenu

This was likely caused by choosing the wrong app for the `NO BUTTON` option in Unlaunch. Hold <kbd class="face">A</kbd> + <kbd class="face">B</kbd> while starting the console, go to `OPTIONS`, and set `NO BUTTON` to whatever your preference is.

### Other Unlaunch problems

If Unlaunch displays `Clusters too large`, `Bad VBR`, `Bad MBR`, or doesn't display any applications while the SD card is inserted, your SD card likely wasn't formatted correctly. Re-follow [SD Card Setup](sd-card-setup.html).

## TWiLight Menu++

For general TWiLight Menu++ troubleshooting, see its [FAQ & Troubleshooting](https://wiki.ds-homebrew.com/twilightmenu/faq) page on the DS-Homebrew Wiki.

## Further assistance

If you have encountered an issue that is not solved here, or one that persists despite the given solutions, ask for assistance in the [DS<sup>(i)</sup> Mode Hacking!](https://discord.gg/yD3spjv) Discord server.
